# Intro to JavaScript

## Overview of JS

So, we've been at this for a week now, and we've certainly done some cool stuff. But we haven't really done much _programming_ yet: we've worked with text content, we've worked with styles, and we've worked with commands through the terminal, but we haven't yet created our own directives for a computer or browser to execute. That changes today!

There are quite a few programming languages in use today, in a variety of contexts. From low-level hardware languages, to languages at the OS level, to server-side frameworks, to client-side scripting languages for the Web. It's this last one that we'll be focusing on for the remainder of the course: JavaScript!

JavaScript was originally built to add dynamic content to websites \(like adding the date or the number of visitors to a site's landing page\). Since those inauspicious beginnings, JavaScript has now grown into a full-stack language for use in servers, browsers, and even native applications.

JavaScript was first created by Brendan Eich in the mid-90s while he worked for a browser company called Netscape. There are a few different origin stories, but supposedly it was called LiveScript originally. However, because of a marketing decision, in an attempt to ride the coattails of Java it was renamed to JavaScript. 

**There is no direct association between the 2 languages - they are wholly separate.**

To give a taste of some JavaScript syntax we might express the concept above like so:  

```javascript
/**
  * `=` is an ASSIGNMENT OPERATOR. It takes whatever is on the right side and assigns it to the left.
  * So...on the right, we have a STRING. We can tell it's a STRING b/c it's wrapped in "".
  * On the left, a couple of things are happening:
  *   1. `const` is a keyword that reserves space in memory.
  *   2. After `const`, we give a name for that space in memory.
  *
  * The right side is assigned to the left side via an ASSIGNMENT OPERATOR, `=`.
  *
  * Oh yeah, notice that all of this stuff I am typing here is not code.
  * These are comments - more specifically, multi-line comments.
  */
const js = "JavaScript";
const java = "Java";

/**
  * An EXPRESSION is anything that evaluates to some value.
  * In this case, this EXPRESSION evaluates to `false` (a BOOLEAN type).
  * This expression uses a COMPARISON OPERATOR.
  *
  * Note that the code below is sort of pointless.
  * It's true that we are evaluating an EXPRESSION, 
  * but those results are immediately discarded.
  * We are not using the results for any purpose, aside from illustrating these concepts.
  * It would be more realistic to wrap this inside of a STATEMENT such as an `if` STATEMENT.
  * STATEMENTS usually use the results of EXPRESSION to build some type of logic into our programs -
  * 'if this, then that', etc.
  */
js !== java;
```

- syntax - the 'grammar' of a programming language. If your *linter* says something about syntax error, then you are probably missing some `{` or `(` or `;` or something like that. 

- linter - A package that we install that is like a 'spelling and grammar' checker for our code. We can configure said linter with different style guides. This tooling in conjunction with an extension for our *text editor,* VS Code, will alert us with warnings or errors - not just for *syntax* 👆but for bad 'style,' etc.

JS is a dynamically typed language. This means that we can change the type of a value stored in memory 'on the fly' (dynamically). It's as simple as something like this:

```javascript
/**
  * Like `const`, `let` also reserves space in memory.
  * With `let`, we are allowed to replace the value in memory - with `const`, that is not the case.
  *
  * First, we place a value of type STRING (essentially groups of characters - words, whatever).
  * Then, we replace the value stored in the memory under the name 'x' with the NUMBER 23.
  */
let x = "I'm a string!"
x = 23;
```

## Data Types

**Everything in JS is an object...except primitives.**

### Primitive Data Types

[Primitives](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) are data types that can only hold 1 discrete piece of data.

There are 7 of them. 2 of them will remain beyond the scope of our course, but here are the 5 to be aware of:

  1. `string` - contained inside quotation marks, these are like 'dialogue' in writing. JS just works with the words as they are shown. For example: `"Manav"` or `"Misra"` or even `"23"` - if it's wrapped in `""`, it's a `string`.
  2. `number` - JS makes no distinction between integers or floating point numbers; `number`s are just `number`s (unless they are wrapped in `""` 👆🏾).
  3. `boolean`- only 2 possibly values: either `true` or `false`. As you can imagine, these are very useful with creating logic statements, 'if this, then that.'
  4. `null` - An explicitly assigned value that we **should** use if we just need a _variable_ to contain a 'nothing' value. `let x = null;`
  5. `undefined` - The absence of any 'real' value, including `null`, but it's still a _primitive data type._ We **should not** deliberately assign this value, but allow JS to use it. For example, if we say `let x;` without assigning a value, JS will assign value of `undefined`.

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/QUKy3somPnw" caption="Review of Primitives" %}

### Objects

Everything else is an Object. This means it's a composite data type. It can hold several discrete pieces of data, and some of that data may be primitives or it might be nested Objects.

```javascript
/**
  * We create a JS `Object`.
  * It's a useless empty `Object`,
  * but the point is that a JS `Object` is created simply with opening and closing braces.
  */
const myObj = {};

/**
  * Most `Object`s have some data in them held as 🔑 : value pairs.
  * Note that each 🔑 : value pair is separated by a DELIMITER - in this case `:`
  *
  * A DELIMITER simply lets 💻 know where something starts and stops.
  * Here, this is so we can clearly delineate the 🔑 from its corresponding value.
  *
  * All 🔑s MUST BE STRING type.
  * The corresponding value can be of any other data type.
  */
const myObj2 = {
    // 🔑 is ALWAYS STRING!
    'name': 'Manav'
}

// For multiple 🔑:value pairs, we DELIMIT with a `,`
// Note that this is also a JS comment. 👆🏾
// It's a SINGLE-LINE comment style.
const myObj3 = {
  'fname': 'Manav',
  'lname': 'Misra',
  'age': 23,
  'notLyingAboutAge': false
}
```

## Dot Notation and Objects

In large part, programming is about **referencing** data stored in memory for reading, modifying, or completely re-assigning it. 

When it comes to _primitive_ data types, there is only way to 'modify' that data, it has to be 'thrown out' (yes a 'garbage collector' combs memory for 'unassigned' data and 'cleans it up') and replaced with a new value - there is no modifiying of _primitives._ `let x = 3; x = 3 + 1` results in the value `3` being removed and wholly replaced in memory with `4`.

With composite data types, it is perfectly normal to simply modify, or _mutate_ data in place. We accomplish this with the use of `.` notation like so: `myObj3.fname` would retrieve the `string` data: `'Manav'`. 

Here, `fname` is a 🔑 that references a _property._ A _property_ is akin to a 'noun' in grammar. It describes the _state_ of something - it doesn't perform any type of 'action' or 'do' anything, like a 'verb' might.

### Everything in JS is an `object` Except Primitives

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/Cd-Eovf2spI" caption="Object Literals" %}

In fact, all of the 'built-in' functionality that we will be using from the 'browser environment' (as opposed to the 'server' - NodeJS), belongs to a special _global object_ known as `window`. This _global object_ consists of a huge collection of 🔑-value pairs as we have seen 👆🏾. Some of these are _properties,_ as we used in our _object literals_ ('custom objects) 👆🏾, and others are _methods._ _Methods_ perform some type of 'action' and are _invoked_ with a set of `()`. In addition, we usually pass in some _arguments_ inside of the `()` - these _arguments_ provide the _method_ with additional information that it might need to do its job. `window.console.log()` will `log` something in the 'console' (in your browser dev tools). However, you won't actually see much at all b/c we need to pass in some _arguments_ so that the the `log()` method knows what it's supposed to 'log'. Try: `window.console.log('hello world!')`. Or, assuming you still have an `object` like the one above 'in scope' (means that it's in your JS file where we can still access it in memory), you could do: `window.console.log(myObj3.fname)`.

Now, it would be a real pain to have to type type `window` each and every time to access 'built in' browser-based JS. So, we can omit that part of it and JS still knows what we want. `console.log('hello');` is same as: `window.console.log('hello');`

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/w6JqXZEb798" caption="Global Window Object" %}

### Nested Objects

It is quite common for `object`s to be nested within one another. Actually, when we do: `window.console.log()`, note that we `console` is another `object` inside of `window`.

```javascript
const nestedObj = {
  name: 'Manav',
  age: 23,
  pets: {
    cats: {
      name: 'Dora',
      isDiabetic: true,
      monthlyCost: 150,
      note: "Does anyone want an old diabetic cat?"
    }
  }
}
```

`console.log(nestedObj.pets.cats.name);` would yield `'Dora'`. Here we are 'chaining' the `.` notation.

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/NiQXTDqvZDQ" caption="Nested Objects and Chaining Dot Notation" %}
