# Local Development, Packages and Linters

## Let's Start Developing Locally Using Best Practices and Industry Standards

### Linting

The main languages that we will be working with besides HTML will be in the near future will be: 1, _Cascading Style Sheets\(CSS\)_ - govern the 'look and feel' of our pages 2. _JavaScript\(JS\)_ - adds dynamic behavior to our pages. This includes things such as user interactions \(`'click'`\) and sending and receiving data to and from remote sources via APIs \(`fetch()` and `axios`\).

These should be familiar to you from the class 'pre-work.'

As useful as they are, both CSS and JS lack any 'hard and fast' rules regarding how you implement it. Because of this, it's easy to get 'sloppy' and write code in a manner that will lead towards disorganization and confusion for both you and your potential co-workers, especially on larger, 'real ' projects. What can we do to alleviate this? Take advantage of _modules_ that will integrate with VS Code and _lint_ our code as we type.

Now, on most well-organized development teams, there is someone that sets forth coding standards that other developers should adhere to. This allows for better collaboration and for developers to essentially fill in for one another. It also means that, even as a solo developer, there will be some consistency such that when you review an older project after some time, it will be easier for you to make sense of what you wrote previously.

These 'style guides' can vary from company to company, so if lieu of this we are going to apply some 'general best practices' that draw from many industry leaders including Google and Airbnb, among other industry leaders.

Specifically, we are going to be using `npm` and some hidden \(remember: `ls -a` shows us hidden files in the terminal\) 'rc' files to install and configure [Stylelint](https://github.com/savvy-coders/course-materials/tree/68f586eff33845bfa58bd6ef965c0073690d04d2/docs/stylelint.io) and [ESLint](https://github.com/savvy-coders/course-materials/tree/68f586eff33845bfa58bd6ef965c0073690d04d2/docs/eslint.org). We'll combine this with some VS Code extensions and add in some settings using _JSON files_ to finish setting up our local dev environment. The result will be...better code with less frustration.

### `npm init`

We are going to take advantage of `npm` - Node's Package Manager. This gives us access to [a collection of JS-driven tooling](https://www.npmjs.com/) that we can easily add/remove as needed on a project-by-project basis.

To accomplish this, _from our `FirstnameLastname` directory,_ we will _initialize our project to use `npm`_. `npm init`. A series of questions will follow as shown which will generate a file called 'package.json.' Watch the video below for more details on this before reading further.

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/vZvdweVyIps" %}

### Stylelint for CSS

After this we can utilize `npm` to `install` away. For now, just do: `npm install prettier stylelint styleling-config-prettier stylelint-config-standard stylelint-prettier --save-dev`

The above command will reach out to the `npm` registry on the internet and bring in many packages of code that will bring in `stylelint` itself and some accompanying 'standard' configurations to enforce _how_ we write our CSS. Also included is `prettier`, to help us with how our code itself is formatted \(indentation, spacing, etc.\)

When it's all done, you will notice an update to your 'package.json.' A new key called `"devDependencies"` is not there. This is a listing of packages that we are using that our project is **dependent** on but only for **development** purposes. 

{% embed url="https://www.dropbox.com/s/y5dnp07ejjmzc4r/devDependencies.png?dl=0" caption="Your display will vary slightly from this!" %}

#### Add Configuration For StyleLint

To setup the configuration of Stylelint so that it will use the 'configs' we installed previously with `npm`:

  1. *From our 'FirstNameLastname' directory in the terminal:* `touch .stylelintrc`. This creates a configuration file - note that it's 'hidden' and ends with 'rc'.
  2. From VS Code, do a 'ctrl/cmd + P' and 'fuzzy find' the new file (just start typing 'style'...). Inside this blank file, kindly paste the code below.

```bash
  // 20190901083000
  // https://raw.githubusercontent.com/manavm1990/savvy-coders-portfolio/master/.stylelintrc

  {
    "extends": [
      "stylelint-config-standard",
      "stylelint-prettier/recommended"
    ]
  }
  ```

The last part of this process will be to integrate VS Code to actively use Styelint. Don't worry, that's just some more `touch` and then 'copy/paste,' but we will do that later after we set up ESLint.

### ESLint for JS

This is a similar process to what we just did for Stylelint to lint our CSS, but ESLint is for JS.

Kindly paste the following in the terminal from your 'FirstnameLastname' directory:

`npm install eslint eslint-config-prettier eslint-plugin-prettier --save-dev`

Again, we are installing modules of code including some 'general' configurations that will 'monitor' our code as we type (once we integrate with VS Code).

#### Add Configuration for ESLint

  1. *From our 'FirstNameLastname' directory in the terminal:* `touch .eslintrc.json`. This creates a configuration file - note that it's 'hidden' JSON file (more on JSON later) and includes 'rc' in the filename.
  2. From VS Code, do a 'ctrl/cmd + P' and 'fuzzy find' the new file (just start typing 'esl'...). Inside this blank file, kindly paste the code below.

```bash
// 20190901095402
// https://raw.githubusercontent.com/manavm1990/savvy-coders-portfolio/master/.eslintrc.json

{
  "env": {
    "browser": true,
    "es6": true
  },
  "extends": "eslint:recommended",
  "globals": {
    "Atomics": "readonly",
    "SharedArrayBuffer": "readonly"
  },
  "parserOptions": {
    "ecmaVersion": 2018,
    "sourceType": "module"
  },
  "rules": {
  }
}
```

Next, we'll integrate VS Code extensions (and some helpful settings) and then.

### Integrating VS Code with our Linting (and adding some useful settings)

  1. *From our 'FirstNameLastname' directory in the terminal:* `mkdir .vscode`. This creates a special folder that VS Code knows to look in for configurations. Note that it's 'hidden' directory.
  2. `cd .vscode` (Change Directory)
  3. `touch settings.json`
  4. `touch extensions.json`

Now, jump back into VS Code and let's do a bit more copy/paste stuff before we touch upon JSON and wrap up our setup/config stuff.

VS Code is higly configurable and we can specify certain extensions that we want to share with other developers; likewise with settings.

Open up the files using your your 'fuzzy finder' ('ctrl/cmd + P') as you did before and paste the following into **'extensions.json.**

```json
// 20190826132226
// https://raw.githubusercontent.com/manavm1990/savvy-coders-portfolio/june-2019/.vscode/extensions.json
{
  "recommendations": [
    "formulahendry.auto-rename-tag",
    "aaron-bond.better-comments",
    "coenraads.bracket-pair-colorizer-2",
    "streetsidesoftware.code-spell-checker",
    "naumovs.color-highlight",
    "oderwat.indent-rainbow",
    "xabikos.javascriptsnippets",
    "sdras.night-owl",
    "esbenp.prettier-vscode",
    "2gua.rainbow-brackets",
    "stkb.rewrap",
    "ms-vsliveshare.vsliveshare",
    "smelukov.vscode-csstree",
    "shinnn.stylelint",
    "dbaeumer.vscode-eslint",
    "pkief.material-icon-theme",
    "codezombiech.gitignore",
    "kisstkondoros.vscode-gutter-preview",
    "plievone.vscode-template-literal-editor"
  ]
}
```

And for **'settings.json'**

```json
// 20190901103055
// https://raw.githubusercontent.com/manavm1990/savvy-coders-portfolio/master/.vscode/settings.json

{
  "files.autoSave": "onFocusChange",
  "editor.tabSize": 2,
  "editor.wordWrap": "wordWrapColumn",
  "editor.wordWrapColumn": 100,
  "editor.accessibilitySupport": "off",
  "editor.scrollBeyondLastColumn": 2,
  "editor.smoothScrolling": true,
  "editor.minimap.enabled": false,
  "files.insertFinalNewline": true,
  "files.trimTrailingWhitespace": true,
  "workbench.enableExperiments": false,
  "workbench.colorTheme": "Material",
  "workbench.iconTheme": "material-icon-theme",
  "workbench.view.alwaysShowHeaderActions": true,
  "terminal.integrated.fontFamily": "'Inconsolata', monospace",
  "editor.fontFamily": "'Inconsolata', Menlo, Monaco, 'Courier New', monospace",
  "editor.fontLigatures": true,
  "better-comments.highlightPlainText": true,
  "eslint.autoFixOnSave": true,
  "files.eol": "\n"
}
```

As you may be able to ascertain, these control various settings for your VS Code project. As you get more comfortable with all the things, feel free to edit these JSON files to suit your taste.

For now, exit out of VS Code, and kindly open up VS Code again from your 'FirstnameLastname' directory: `code .`.

Look in the bottom right of VS Code and notice that it asks if you want to install some extensions. Kindly select 'install all' and 'activate' when prompted.

Now, you're cooking with gas! Your local dev environment and project workspace is set up to make your life a bit easier as you learn to code.

Watch the videos below to understand a bit more about JSON and about using fonts in VS Code.

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/rP-3PM3_HQc" %}

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/1fUge_WEgok" %}
