# CSS - Practical Applications

## Custom Properties

Let's start by establishing our desired theme colors. For more information about selecting colors check out [Google's Material guidelines.](https://material.io/design/color/#color-theme-creation)

Once you've picked out your colors, let's use CSS Custom Properties to create a theme. By taking this approach, we can easily change our colors as they are all there in one place.

We'll start by selecting the 'root' element with the `:root` selector. This is essentially the same as using `html` as the selector, but is a bit more specific, so there is less chance of it being overridden inadvertently.

Next, we'll 'declare' a variable and assign a value like so:

```css
:root {
  --primary: #6200EE;
}
```

And to apply this variable to, for example, our `<h1>`:

```css
h1 {
  color: var(--primary);
}
```

Go ahead and build out your entire color palette as shown above, and practice applying colors to a few different elements.

BTW, we are only using 'hexadecimal' format to define our colors. But, there are other approaches such as specifying `RGB` values or even using: hue, saturation and lightness, among others. If, you're interested in the other formats, [check MDN's reference.](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color)

Here's an example implementation:

```css
/* :root selector is basically same as 'html' in this context. */
:root {
  --primary: #6200ee;
  --primary-variant: #3700b3;
  --secondary: #03dac6;
  --secondary-variant: #018786;
  --background: #fff;
  --error: #b00020;
  --primary-text: #fff;
  --secondary-text: #000;
  --base-spacing: 8px;
  --border-primary: solid var(--primary-variant) 3px;
  --border-secondary: solid var(--secondary-variant) 3px;
}

body {
  font-family: "Poppins", sans-serif;
}

h1 {
  margin: calc(var(--base-spacing) * 2);
}

header,
section:nth-of-type(odd),
footer {
  background: var(--primary);
  color: var(--primary-text);
}

nav {
  border-top: var(--border-secondary);
  border-bottom: var(--border-secondary);
}

footer {
  border-top: var(--border-primary);
}

nav,
section:nth-of-type(even) {
  background: var(--secondary);
  color: var(--secondary-text);
}
```

## Spacing and `calc()`

From a design standpoint, it's nice when we can establish consistent spacing around all of the things. _One way_ we can do this is to establish a 'base' spacer, and then multiple it up from there.

1. in `:root`, create another variable called something like: `--spacer`. Give it a value of `8px.` [Why 8px?](https://builttoadapt.io/intro-to-the-8-point-grid-system-d2573cde8632)

2. Practice applying that with `margin` and/or `padding`.

3. Now apply this property to one of your `margin`s or `padding`s: `calc(var(--spacer) * 10)`

### Flexing Our Layout

Now, let's concern ourselves with the layout of our page, starting with our mobile view (mobile-first web design).

One common approach, is to let our entire page take up `100vw`, and then apply a `display: flex` and `flex-direction: column` to prevent a single column mobile layout.

The general idea is that, from here, we will use `@media` (Media Queries) to 'respond' to some minimum screen sizes, and update our layout accordingly.
