# Mobile View Styling

## `<nav>`

Let's start by removing this ugly 'bullet points' in our `<ul>`. In fact, we can just remove those from all of our `<ul>`s like so:

```css
ul {
  text-decoration: none;
}
```

Next, let's center our text for `nav ul` (this selects _any_ children `<ul>`s that are inside of `<nav>`) with `text-align: center`.

Let's remove the underlines from `nav a` with `text-decoration: none`.

Feel free to make any other adjustments, for example with `margin` and `padding`. (HINT: Apply a `margin: 0` on your `<ul>`.)

### Font Awesome

For the `<nav>`, we will want to introduce a 🍔 icon that will show/hide our navigation. You've probably seen this effect on most 'responsively designed' websites when browsing the web on your ☎️. We'll use [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/icons?d=gallery&q=hamburger) (you should have already linked that stylesheet earlier) to place this icon.

Try pasting this: `<span class="fas fa-bars"></span>` as the _first child_ of your `<nav>` (so, it should be above and outside of the `<ul>`) We are using `<span>` because that gives us a 'generic' tag that is `inline` (as opposed to `<div>` which is a 'generic' `block` tag). These 2 tags are great when we just need a 'placeholder' to apply some special styles. In this case, we are using special _classes_ provided by Font Awesome. These classes reference the stylesheet that we linked to early via the CDN.

When you refresh your 'localhost', you should see the icon.

{% embed url="https://www.dropbox.com/s/rztcnp980rfa23r/hamburger.png?dl=0" caption="🍔 icon" %}

That's really small, isn't it? Well, let's fix that in 'style.css'. Let's move all the way to the bottom and add a _CSS Comment:_ `/* Class Selectors*/` Since classes override tag selectors in CSS, it's not a bad idea to just put them at their own section at the bottom of the page.

Font Awesome's icons are are actually fonts, not images. So, we'll need to work with `font-size` (as opposed to `width`).

```css
/* Class Selectors. */

.fas {
  font-size: 4.8em; /* 48px - Gives a nice 'clickable' target as per: https://material.io/design/layout/spacing-methods.html#touch-targets */
}
```

---

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/dqUDy1266uU" caption="Responsive Navigation Menu" %}

In order to position that 🍔 where we want it, we need to remove it from the 'normal flow' of the document using: `position: absolute;`. Then, we can position it with: `transform: translateX()`. The arguments that you pass into `translateX()` can be as simple as `80vw` (or similar) so that the 🍔 gets moved horizontally, essentially 80% of the way across the screen. But, in the video, we see some more exact 'translations.'

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/FR59yQBpLII" caption="Responsive Navigation Menu" %}

Now, in order to get the `<nav>` to 'hide' and 'show,' we could use some 'utility' classes. **To be clear:** this is not a technical term - these are the same as any other CSS classes. We just call them 'utility' classes because they are easily used throughout the site for a specific purpose - in this case, 'showing and hiding' things on 'mobile.'

'Utility' classes have simple, descriptive names. In this case, `is-hidden--mobile`. The `--` is also a convention that indicates that `is-hidden` is or will be modified for different use cases (e.g. mobile, tablet, desktop, etc.)

At any rate, one way to hide these things is to set our `font-size` and `height` properties to have values of `0`. Make sense? 

This works, but then, our 🍔 icon 'spills over' outside of `<nav>`. It gets totally ignored by `<nav>`, which doesn't provide enough `height` to accommodate it. 😞 (Think about why that is. **HINT:** Look a the video 👆🏾).

To resolve this, we can insist that `<nav>` be required to have a specific height using the `min-height` property. Again, one can get as detailed or simple with this as needed - it can be a bit of tedious trial and error or calculation.

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/JvN9kpHPQ7Q" caption="Responsive Navigation Menu" %}

## Hero

It's common to have a 'decorative' 'hero' section in a 'typical' website layout. This usually consists of a 'stock' background image with a 'centered' button.

The following videos show us how to work with `background-image` and to use `display: flex` to center things (similar to what we did in the `<header>`). We also see the `vh` units again so that our `.hero` 'scales' nicely with changing screen heights.

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/I0YNTL-4lhw" caption="CSS Background Images" %}

`cover` is for 'scaling out' an image to make sure that our element is completely covered. Even if that means that part of the image is 'cropped off.'

`contain` is the same as 👆🏾, but the image **is not* ever cropped. It's like a tablecloth. It will cover as much of the image as it can, and that's it. When using `cover` you will probably notice a 'repeating' or 'tiling' effect, which is almost always undesirable. Use `background-repeat: no-repeat` to prevent this.

Our 'CTA' 'button' is not really a `<button>` - it's just a `<a>` tag. We would only use `<button>` for something that has some specific JS-driven functionality. For instance, our 🍔 for `<nav>` above _could_ have been wrapped in a `<button>`.

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/ULZWjepFCXA" caption="Flexbox and 'button' styling. %}

We can once again use _flexbox_ to conveniently and perfectly center the `<a>` and apply some colors and `padding` to make the `<a>` look like a 'nice button.' 👍🏾.

## Footer

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/YXEYKIUnB3g" caption="Footer styles" %}

Again, _flexbox_ is great for distributing and aligning content in a single row. Now that you have basics down, here a couple of resources to use to explore more:

- [CSS Tricks Flexbox Guide](https://css-tricks.com/snippets/css/a-guide-to-flexbox/)
- [Flexbox Froggy](https://flexboxfroggy.com/)
